Okay, this is super important for the exam
to know how CloudWatch is linked to EC2.
Super, super important.
So let's go ahead and see this.
AWS provides some metric for your EC2 instances
and AWS will push these metrics for you.
You have some basic monitoring,
such as the metrics will be collected
at five minutes interval,
but you can enable detailed monitoring,
in which case these metrics will be collected
at a one minute interval.
And these metrics include CPU, network, disc
and status check metric.
Remember these four, they're very, very important.
Then you're able to use custom metrics and custom metrics,
by definition, they're yours to push, they're custom.
So the basic resolution
of your custom metric is one minute,
but you can go into a high resolution custom metric,
which is all the way to one second.
And the custom metrics for EC2 you may want to push,
well, that includes RAM or application level
metrics, for example.
If you do do that then too you have to make sure
that your EC2 instance does have an IAM role
that allows it to push metrics to CloudWatch.
So all the metrics included for EC2, you need to know them.
So the first metric you need to know is CPU.
We will get the CPU utilization as a metric
and also in case we have T2 or T3 instances that do burst,
then we can get the credit usage for the burst
and the credit balance.
For the network, we're able to figure out
how much network is going in our instance
and out of our instance.
For the status check, it's basically checking
whether or not our instance is healthy.
We get an instant status,
which is Amazon checking if the EC2 VM is working
or a system status,
which is Amazon checking if the underlying
hardware is working.
So these are very important ones.
These are Amazon health checks,
so you don't have any controls over that,
but it basically gives you an idea
and you need to be able to differentiate
between your instant status and your system status.
The last status check is an attached EBS status,
which is going to check the state
of any attached EBS volumes.
Finally, only for instance stores,
instance store backed EC2 instances,
we get disc information.
We'll get the read and write operations
or bytes for our instant store.
And finally, RAM is not included in the AWS EC2 metrics.
This is a common question at the exam.
They ask you, can you get the RAM from CloudWatch?
No, you cannot.
AWS does not push the RAM usage in CloudWatch.
It is for yours to push.
Okay, so let's have a look at
our monitoring metrics for EC2 instance.
So we are going in this monitoring tab
and then we can have a look at all the metrics in here,
which I can add into a cloud dashboard
to make it a little easier to see.
So I can create a new dashboard
and I'll call it EC2 metrics.
And okay, click on add to dashboard,
and that's my dashboard name.
I'll just call it EC2, and click on create.
Here we go.
And then add to dashboard.
So I am in my dashboard from CloudWatch
and we can have a look at all the metrics.
So first of all, CPU utilization, we know it.
So this is something that can be varying
between zero and 100%,
and this is a very common metric to monitor.
Status checks is going to be something we'll see soon,
which is around how to have a look at if your EC2 instances
is having a failure on the hardware level
or the software level,
and so we can have the metrics on the failure
by being between zero and one.
Network in and out is quite obvious,
which is how much network goes in and out
of your EC2 instance and number of packets as well.
Disc read and disc writes look like they're zero
and it's normal because we have an EBS volume
attached to our EC2 instance.
The disc reads and writes metrics
are going to be seen on the EBS volume itself, okay?
But if your EC2 instance was an EC2 instance
with an instance store, that means that the drive
and the storage is directly physically attached
to your EC2 instance,
then you would see these metrics being populated, okay?
This is something common to know and to be aware of.
Finally, for CPU credit usage,
this is going to be seen here
for burstable type of instances,
otherwise it will be zero,
and we can have also a look at the CPU credit balance.
As you can see, as we're not using
our EC2 instance right now,
the CPU credit balance is going up, up, up over time.
And finally, if you wanted to enable detailed monitoring
for your EC2 instance, this is how you would do it.
So you click on monitoring
and click on manage detailed monitoring
and you can enable it.
So this is going to show you graphs
with a one minute period instead of five.
So right now, this is a five minute period,
but we can go into one minute period,
but you're going to incur extra cost if you do enable
detailed monitoring, which I will not do.
Okay?
So (indistinct) lecture, I hope you liked it,
and make sure at the end to delete your cloud dashboard.
So delete this dashboard and you're good to go.
I will see you in the next lecture.